(Applause)
(Music playing)
>> FEMALE SPEAKER:
Don't stay up too late.
>> MALE SPEAKER: Come on.
>> MALE SPEAKER: All right.
>> MALE SPEAKER: Yes.
>> MALE SPEAKER: Woo.
This is good.
(Music playing)
(Applause)
>> TIM COOK: Wow.
Thank you.
Good morning.
And welcome to WWDC 2019.
(Applause)
It is so great to be here
with you today in San Jose.
We are so inspired by the
millions of incredible
Apple Developers
around the world.
Your dreams and your
passion and dedication to
fulfill those dreams comes
across so clearly in the
apps that you create, apps
that enrich the lives of
millions of people
around the world.
You make the world a
better place and that is
why we are here
this morning.
So, welcome to WWDC.
(Applause)
WWDC is more vibrant than
ever with attendees from
more countries and more
first-time attendees than ever.
In fact, for most of you
in the audience this
morning, this is your
first WWDC, so, welcome.
(Applause)
Apple makes - Apple makes
the best products in the
world, products that
integrate world class
hardware with world class
software and a growing
collection of world class
services to deliver
experiences unlike
anyone else out there.
In March, we held an event
to talk about our services
and introduce you to some
brand-new Apple services.
We launched Apple News+
which offers a beautifully
designed experience for
more than 300 popular
magazines, digital
publications and newspapers.
There is no service out
there quite like this.
I love it.
And if you haven't tried
it, I encourage you to do so.
(Applause)
We also announced Apple
Arcade, the world's first
game subscription service
for mobile desktop and
living room featuring over
100 new games from some of
the most innovative game
developers in the world.
Apple Arcade will be
available later this year.
And we introduced Apple
Card which will completely
reinvent the credit
card experience.
Apple Card will be
available this summer.
And we announced Apple TV+
which is a new home for
the world's most
creative storytellers.
Now, while the service
doesn't launch until fall,
we thought it would be
really fun this morning to
share with you a sneak
peek of just one of our
upcoming show from Ron
Moore, the executive
producer behind Battle
Star Galactica and Star Trek.
With his new series, Ron
wanted to take us on a
journey in which the
space race was a little
different than you
might remember it.
And it has never ended.
So, let's take a first
look at For All Mankind.
(Applause)
(Music playing)
>> MALE SPEAKER: I believe
that this nation should
commit itself to landing
a man on the moon and
returning him
safely to the earth.
>> MALE SPEAKER: After
thousands of years gazing
up in the heavens and
dreaming of this day, a
man is about to set
foot on the moon.
>> MALE SPEAKER: Across
the world, people wait
with bated breath.
>> MALE SPEAKER:
Ladies and gentlemen,
this is a live signal.
There he is.
The shock across the
nation at this event
is just indescribable.
The Soviet cosmonaut has
become the first to set
foot on the moon.
>> MALE SPEAKER: I thought
it was about being first.
It turns out the stakes
are much bigger than that.
>> MALE SPEAKER:
Get back to work.
>> MALE SPEAKER: We are
still in this thing.
>> MALE SPEAKER: Change
of plans, gentlemen.
There is water
on the moon.
This race will be ours
to fight for and to win.
And we are not
stopping there.
Moon Lab.
>> MALE SPEAKER: We need
to accelerate the base.
>> MALE SPEAKER:
You are going to be
an astronaut candidate?
>> FEMALE SPEAKER: No, I'm
going to be an astronaut.
>> MALE SPEAKER: We will
go to Mars, Saturn, the
stars, the galaxy.
>> MALE SPEAKER:
Drifting right.
Watch it.
>> MALE SPEAKER: Eagle,
this is Houston.
Do you copy?
>> MALE SPEAKER: This is
not the end of the race.
We must keep our
eyes to the future.
>> Three, two -
(Applause)
>> TIM COOK:
Wasn't that great?
I've gotten an early look
at the entire season and I
loved it, and I think
you are going to too.
We can't wait to show you
this series and our other
original shows
coming up this fall.
Now, Apple TV+ will be
available on the Apple TV
app which is across all
of your screens including
your Smart TVs.
And, of course, the best
way to enjoy this content
is with AppleTV 4K which
offers an immersive
cinematic experience
delivering the highest
picture quality of any
streaming device out there.
Apple TV is powered by tvOS,
and tvOS is just one of the
software platforms that we
are here to talk about today.
So, let's get going.
(Applause)
I'm excited to share with
you this morning how we
are going to make tvOS
even more entertaining
and more personal.
We completely redesigned
the Home screen, making
Apple TV come to life from
the moment that you turn
it on with full screen
previews of the best TV
shows and newly
released movies.
Apple TV is designed to be
used for the whole family,
but we wanted to make
it even more personal.
Today, the Up Next list
has a mix of shows for
everyone in the home, but
when you sit down to watch
TV, you want to see the
shows that you love.
So, we are introducing
multiuser support for tvOS.
(Applause)
Now, everyone in the home
gets their own Up Next
list plus personalized
recommendations for new
shows and movies to enjoy.
Now, and it's easy to
switch between family
members using the all
new Control Center.
It works just like you
would expect it to.
TvOS also delivers Apple
Music with over 50 million
songs and curated music
video play lists.
And now, with multiuser
support, everyone in the
home gets their own
personalized music experience.
You are going to be able
to see lyrics to your
favorite songs in
sync with the music.
This is really cool.
(Applause)
This is the best music
experience on television.
Now, Apple Arcade is also
going to look amazing on
the AppleTV 4K this fall.
Playing great games like
Ocean Horn 2, of course,
is even better with great
game controllers so we are
extending support to two
of the best and most
popular game
controllers available.
Xbox 1S.
(Applause)
Yes.
And PlayStation
DualShock 4.
(Applause)
Yeah.
I think there is a few
PlayStation fans out there.
Finally, let's talk about
our beautiful screensavers.
We have already captured
some of the most stunning
locations around the globe
and even some from outer
space through our
collaboration with the
International
Space Station.
This year, we are
going under the sea.
Oh, it's awesome.
(Applause)
We've partnered with BBC
Natural History unit to
shoot beautiful 4K HDR
footage, taking you to
places that few people
have ever experienced before.
So, that's the new tvOS.
More personal and more
entertaining than ever.
(Applause)
Now, let's talk
about Apple Watch.
(Applause)
Yeah.
Apple Watch is the number
one watch in the world.
It keeps you connected to
the people and information
you care about just by
raising your wrist.
It tracks your workouts
and motivates you to stay
active throughout the day.
And with new breakthrough
features like fall
detection, heart
notifications and ACG, the
Apple Watch has truly
become an intelligent
guardian for your health.
For so many of us, the
Apple Watch has become an
essential part of
our daily life.
Today, we are going to
take another leap forward
with the watchOS to bring
new experiences to Apple
Watch while enhancing the
ones that you already love.
To tell you all about it,
I would like to invite
Kevin Lynch to the stage.
Kevin.
(Applause)
>> KEVIN LYNCH:
Thank you, Tim.
Good morning.
So excited to be here.
We're thrilled at how
Watch is making such a
difference in so
many people's lives.
This is driving us to make
Watch even more powerful
and more personal for you.
Let's start with
Watch faces.
Now, these are something
you interact with most
every day and we have more
Watch faces this year
since the very
first Apple Watch.
(Applause)
From simply beautiful to
richly detailed, let's
take a look at
a few of these.
First, we have the
gradient face which is
smoothly animating
with the time.
Then we have this large
Numerals face showing the
current hour in multiple
languages and the very
modern digital face
showing you a great look
in multiple colors and
then the California dial,
classic design
for a Watch face.
Now, many of these
faces you can add more
information to, such as
adding rich complications
here right on the
California dial.
Then we have
the solar face.
This visualizes the sun's
24-hour path around the
dial and you can see it
changing during the day or
as you rotate
the Digital Crown.
These are just beautiful.
(Applause)
Now, across all of the
Watch faces, we are
introducing taptic chimes.
And when enabled, on the
hour, you will feel a
silent taptic on your
wrist and if sound is on,
you will hear an audible
chime like this.
Yes, that's a bird song.
It's actually a robin
captured at Apple Park.
I mean, it was
recorded in Apple Park.
(Laughter)
The robins are okay.
(Applause)
Now, let's talk
about apps.
Now, these are designed
for quick interactions on Watch.
First, we are bringing
more Apple apps to Watch.
The new Audiobooks app to let you listen to Apple Books and
Voice Memos so you can
easily record your thoughts.
(Applause)
And calculator.
And check this out; it
also includes the ability
to do tip calculations,
including the ability to
split the bill
with friends.
(Applause)
Now, we are also giving
developers great new tools
and APIs to build great
apps for Apple Watch.
And we are now making it
possible to create apps
that run independently
on the Watch, no longer
requiring a
companion iPhone app.
(Applause)
And now you can get
extended time to access
sensor data and complete
sessions like physical
therapy with Kya or
brushing your teeth with
Colgate or
meditating with Calm.
And watchOS 6 now enables
the streaming audio API so
you can go with just
your Watch and you can
stream great content
like Podcasts, music,
live sports games.
So, with new developer
tools and a new native UI
framework coming this
year, we are enabling a
whole new generation
of apps for Watch.
Now, to make it easier
for you to discover these apps,
we are excited to bring
the App Store to Apple Watch.
(Applause)
You can browse apps
curated by our editorial
team or find favorite apps
like Head Space or Carrot
Weather or Streaks,
the Nike Run Club.
You can search the full
App Store using dictation
or scribble or
just asking Siri.
And you can view product
pages to see information
like the app description,
reviews, screenshots.
And finally, you can
purchase and install an
app directly
on your Watch.
(Applause)
So, discovering and using
apps at Apple Watch is
going to be better than
ever with the App Store
and these really
great developer tools.
Now, we are also adding
new health and fitness
capabilities and to tell
you about some of these, I
would like to invite to
the stage Dr. Sumbul Desai,
our VP of Health, to the stage.
Sumbul?
(Applause)
>> SUMBUL DESAI:
Thanks, Kevin.
Apple Watch is an amazing
health and fitness
partner, and in watchOS 6
we are adding even more
features to empower you to
better manage your health
starting with activity.
Being physically active is
one of the most important
things you can do
for your health.
If it were a prescription,
it would actually be one
of the most prescribed
medicines in the world.
The Activity app on Apple
Watch already motivates
you to stay active.
It also lets you know
how active you are every
single day, but knowing
how active you are over
the long-term is
just as important.
It gives you a sense of
your overall fitness.
So, in watchOS 6 we are
introducing Activity Trends.
(Applause)
For nine key metrics it
will compare your progress
over the last 90 days
with the last 365.
If the trends show that
you are maintaining or
improving, you will see
an arrow pointing up, and
that's great; keep doing
what you are doing.
But if you are trending
downward, we will give you
simple coaching to
get you back on track.
You will see trends for
familiar metrics like
move, exercise, and stand,
but you will also see
trends for some new
metrics like your workout
walking pace, flights of
stairs climbed or even
your cardio fitness level.
Activity Trends will
provide you with a more
complete picture of what
you can do to stay active
and even more importantly,
give you the motivation
you need for
long-term success.
(Applause)
Now, let's talk about
your hearing health.
Your hearing is
a precious asset.
Think about the sounds
that surround you every
day, hearing a friend's
laughter, listening to
your favorite song.
Protecting your hearing is
critical to living your
everyday life and
maintaining your
independence as you age.
Since hearing loss is
often so gradual, it's
important to know when the
sounds around you are loud
enough to impact
your hearing.
Like when you are in the
middle of a construction
zone, at a sporting event
or playing your music
really loud to drown
out your singing voice.
I do that all of the time.
The new Noise app uses
the microphone to detect
decibel levels and can
notify you if it's reached
a level that could impact
your hearing over time.
Because the Watch is always
on your wrist, it's in a
great position to monitor
your environmental noise.
If you tap the Noise app,
you will get more detail
and you can use the
complication to check with
just the raise of a wrist.
It's an easy way to
protect your hearing health.
And, of course, this
feature was designed with
privacy in mind.
It only periodically
samples and does not
record or save any audio.
(Applause)
We think the Noise app
is really going to make
a big impact.
Now, there is one more
new feature in health and
fitness and all of the
women out there, pay close
attention because
this one is for you.
Cycle Tracking.
(Applause)
Knowing more about your
menstrual cycle gives you
a window into your health,
from simply ensuring that
you are prepared, to
understanding your
personal patterns
and regularities.
As a physician, I know
that understanding what's
normal for you is critical
in making informed
clinical decisions
and can really enrich
conversations
with your doctor.
So, in watchOS 6, the
Cycle Tracking app gives
you a simple, discreet
ways to visualize your
cycle right on your wrist
and it's really easy to use.
You can log key aspects of
your period and fertility,
including symptoms, and
you can be notified when
it's about to begin.
You can also choose to
receive a fertile window
prediction so you
are better informed.
This feature is available
on Apple Watch and because
we wanted to make this
available to hundreds of
millions of women around
the world, Cycle Tracking
is also available without a Watch in the Health app and iOS.
(Applause)
Yes, for everybody to use.
You can use it on your
iPhone to do all of those
same functions that
can be done on Watch.
We are so excited to
bring more focus to this
incredibly important
aspect of women's health.
Now, back to Kevin.
(Applause)
>> KEVIN LYNCH:
Thank you, Sumbul.
So, the Health app is the
best way to see all of
your health data in
one place, and we have
redesigned it to be
even more personal and
meaningful to you.
In the new summary view,
you can see health
related notifications.
You'll see your favorites,
the information you care
about most, as well as
automatically generated
highlights so you can see
your health data over time.
For example, if you are
more active than you
usually are, how
consistently you may have
been mindful this week,
or how your heart rate
recovered after
a recent workout.
Health is using machine
learning on your iPhone to
determine which
highlights might be most
interesting to you.
So, the new Health app is
going to bring you even
more powerful
perspective on your health.
Now, all of this health
data is securely stored in
your iPhone or encrypted
in iCloud, and since there
is nothing more private
than your health
information, you
control your data.
You can decide if you want
to share particular health
data with selected apps,
if you would like to share
anything at all.
Those are some of the
great new features coming
to watchOS 6.
To give you a look at some
of this running live,
please welcome to the
stage, watchOS program
lead, Haley Allen.
(Applause)
>> HALEY ALLEN:
Thanks so much, Kevin.
I have been loving watchOS
6 and I'm super excited to
have the opportunity to
show it to you today.
Let's start with a few
of my favorite faces.
This is the new modular
compact face and now I can
have a large info graph
complication alongside
a beautiful dial.
And there is even room in
the corner for a couple of
my favorite rich
complications like these
two new ones,
wind and rain.
Let's tap customize and
check out some of the options.
This is the new Noise
complication which tells
me how loud it is in here.
It's pretty quiet.
Let's make some noise
and see how this works.
(Applause)
Amazing.
Thank you.
That's great.
The next face I want to
show you is one of our
most popular faces and
this year we have made it
even cooler because you
can customize it to our
all new monochrome style.
I love the simplicity
of this two-tone look.
In the middle here is the
Audiobooks complication and
I can just tap on it and
resume right where I left off.
And the Now Playing controls
on watchOS 6 are great,
showing me exactly
what I need to see for that app.
In Audiobooks, I can tap
here at the bottom and
find that chapter I want
to listen to again.
It's never been easier to
listen to great books on the go.
The last face I want to
show you is the gradient face.
Kevin showed you how
beautiful it looks full
screen and I can also
customize it to add all of
my favorite rich
complications.
I'm constantly
multitasking.
With a busy job and a son
at home sometimes I only
have a moment to
capture a quick thought.
Let me tap on the Voice
Memos complication in the
bottom right corner
and do that now.
Remind Marcus that just
because you are almost seven
does not mean you get to, quote, "Veto your bedtime."
Okay.
Now, I'm super excited to
give you the first look at
the all new App Store.
With curated collections
and apps, it's super easy
to discover and download
great apps for the Watch.
Let's check out Chineasy.
I can just tap here to see
ratings and screenshots.
And I can download it
directly from my Watch.
It's super convenient.
Let me show you an app I
have already downloaded,
the MLB app.
With the new audio
streaming APIs in watchOS 6,
I can listen in to any
live game no matter where I am.
Now, they aren't actually
playing right now, but let
>> MALE SPEAKER: Two,
one, pitch coming.
A swing and high
drive to right field.
Going back to the
track, it's got a shot.
Right at the wall.
It is gone.
>> HALEY ALLEN: Yes,
isn't that cool?
Come on.
(Applause)
All right.
Thanks so much.
Those are just a few
highlights in watchOS 6.
I think you are
going to love it.
Back to you, Kevin.
(Applause)
>> KEVIN LYNCH:
Thank you, Haley.
That was really cool.
Now, there is so much
more to watchOS 6, like
recognizing songs with
Shazam built right in and
automatic software updates
right on your Watch.
Now, lastly, we know how
personalized you like to
make Watch from the Watch
faces to the physical
bands, and we are
introducing today some new
summer colors and an all-new Pride edition Watch band.
(Applause)
It matches perfectly with
the new pride Watch face
on your Watch.
So, watchOS 6 is another
large step forward for
Watch and it is really an
honor for the team to be
crafting something so
personal to all of you.
Thank you and back to Tim.
(Applause)
>> TIM COOK:
Thank you, Kevin.
All of these great new
features will make the Apple
Watch an even more indispensable part of your daily life.
Now, let's talk about iOS,
the world's most powerful
mobile Operating System.
(Applause)
Last year, we delivered
iOS 12 which is full of
amazing features from
dynamic new AR experiences
and Memoji to screen time
and faster performance,
and once again, iOS has
the highest customer
satisfaction in the
industry with an
incredible 97%.
This is unbelievable.
(Applause)
And as always, our
adoption rate is industry
leading as well.
85% of iOS customers are
on the latest release.
And in fact, iOS 12 has
been installed on more
systems than any
version of iOS ever.
Now, that's in stark
contrast to the latest
offering from those other
guys which was released
before iOS 12; they
only have 10% adoption.
(Applause)
Now, this high adoption
rate is a huge benefit for
both users and developers.
Now, to tell you about the
next major release of iOS,
I'd like to hand
it over to Craig.
Craig.
(Applause)
>> CRAIG FEDERIGHI: Hello.
Thank you.
Okay.
I'd like to talk -
all right, we've got a lot
to talk about
this morning.
I'd like to talk about our
next big release of iOS.
Now, when it came to
naming this release, our
crack marketing team
really surprised us this
year by demonstrating
their ability to count
well into the
double digits.
Yes, it's iOS 13.
(Applause)
Now, iOS 13 is a huge
release packed with lots
of capabilities, but we
know that nothing is more
important to our iPhone
users than performance.
So, this year, we worked
top to bottom in the
system, making everything
faster that you do the most.
Things like unlocking with
Face ID, now 30% faster.
(Applause)
Now, this one is cool.
We have changed the way
that we are packaging apps
on the App Store, and when
this rolls out in the fall
with iOS 13, you will see
that your downloads are
now 50% smaller.
And updates, 60% smaller.
But what's - yes.
(Applause)
But what's really
incredible is the effect
it has on app
launch speed.
It's up to twice
as fast in iOS 13.
(Applause)
Now, we were able to do
this in a release packed
with new features and
there is one that I think
is going to really
resonate with some of you
here and I would like to
introduce it to you now.
Let's take a look.
(Music playing)
(Applause)
That's right.
We are bringing
Dark Mode to iOS.
(Applause)
I'd love to show
it to you live now.
(Cheer)
All right.
(Laughter)
Okay.
Let's take our first
live look at iOS.
Now, here it is in
its traditional light
appearance with this
gorgeous new wallpaper,
but now let's begin our
descent into darkness.
(Laughter)
Look at that.
The gorgeous dark
wallpaper and
notifications look great.
Let's take a look
at our Widgets.
They look just awesome.
Let's take a look
at some apps.
We will start with News.
Check it out with a
gorgeous dark appearance,
so nice.
And your calendar, your
daily events have never
looked so awesome with
this really beautiful palette.
And Notes.
Look at this refined
texture, it's really fantastic.
Let's take a trip
into Messages.
You see how your images,
your emoji, they all look
just fantastic.
And, of course, the
keyboard, with an extra
refined new dark
appearance and some new
tricks because now when
you type, you can swipe.
(Applause)
Just like that.
It's really great.
Let's take a
look at Photos.
Of course, it looks
fantastic in Dark Mode.
Now, this is our Dark
Mode Project Team at the
project kickoff.
You see it was happy times.
They did slowly begin
their descent into darkness.
We take the details
very seriously.
Let's take a look at
our new share sheet.
It looks awesome in Dark
Mode, but you notice in
the middle sharing
suggestions intelligently
based on who you share
with and who appears
in the photos.
You can share
with just a tap.
It's so fast and easy.
And finally, music.
Your music looks
great in Dark Mode.
It can go through some
of my recent play back.
Of course, start playing
some music here.
And now for the first time
ever, time synced lyrics.
(Applause)
And that is a quick look
at what's new with Dark
Mode in iOS 13.
(Applause)
So, great performance,
intelligent sharing, the
new quick path keyboard
and Dark Mode.
But, of course, there
is much more to iOS 13,
starting with apps.
Let's start with Safari,
Mail, and Notes.
Now, Safari has new
options to quickly change
text sizing and has per
website preferences.
Mail gets desktop class
text formatting controls,
including support
for rich fonts.
And Notes gets this
beautiful new gallery
view, support for shared
folders, and much more.
But where we really went
deep is with Reminders.
We have completely
reinvented the app,
rewriting it from the
ground up to make it more
intelligent, intuitive and
powerful and easier than
ever to create Reminders.
So, for instance, just
type what you want and
Reminders will understand
when and where to notify you.
Or you can use the new
quick type bar; just tap
and enter things like
location or even
attachments like photos.
With tasks, you can now
associate to-dos with a
top-level reminder.
Now, smart lists, they
help you keep track of
your most important items
and, if you tag a person
in a reminder, well, next
time you are in a Messages
conversation, you will
automatically get a
notification letting them
know that now is time to talk.
It's really handy.
Next, Maps.
Maps is with you
everywhere you are from
work, home, or even on
the go with CarPlay.
And our team continues its
obsession with building
the best possible map.
Now, we have outfitted
literally hundreds of
planes and cars with
custom sensors and lidar
and driven over four
million miles to rebuild
our map from the ground
up, and the results
are really impressive.
Here is our old map and
here is the new map.
(Applause)
It's just great.
Now, we expect to roll out
this map across the entire
US by the end of this year
and select other
countries next year.
But we didn't stop there.
There is much more to
Maps, and to give you a
quick look at what's new,
I would like to invite
Meg Frost, our Director of
Product Design to the
stage for a quick demo.
Meg.
>> MEG FROST: All right.
All right.
Thank you.
I'm so happy to show you
what's new in Apple Maps.
All right.
First, let's take a
look at that new map.
As Craig said, we have
been driving and flying
all across the United States, collecting land and aerial
data to add significant
new detail to the map.
So, now roads and beaches,
parks and buildings look great.
We have also added a
couple of very useful new
features to our recently
designed launch screen
like favorites, where I
can add the places I go
every day for quick
and easy access.
Now, I can just
tap and go.
And with collections, this
is where I can organize
all of my favorites
or I can make lists of
favorites to share with
friends, or I can finally
organize that
next big trip.
Let's check out my
SF spots collection.
Now, I have been
checking out Chinatown.
You will notice in the
upper right-hand corner,
there is a new
binoculars button.
When I tap that, I get
a brand-new look around window.
Yes, this is the right
place to drop in, so I'm
going to go full screen.
With look around,
I get a gorgeous, high
definition 3D view.
It's an awesome
way to explore.
(Applause)
But this is my
favorite part.
Turn your phone
and hold on tight.
Smoothly move
down the street.
(Applause)
Yep, I bet you haven't
seen it look like that before.
I can tap on labels to
learn more about new places.
Yes, I think I will check
this one out later.
And those are just a few
of the new features that
we will be bringing
to Apple Maps.
Thanks, and back
to you, Craig.
(Applause)
>> CRAIG FEDERIGHI:
Thank you, Meg.
Now, we think Maps users
are really going to love
favorites, collections and
look around, but there is
much more to Maps, like
junction view for China,
or the ability when you
are en route to share an
up to date ETA with
friends and family with
just a tap.
But what's most important
is that Maps has been
designed to be
private and secure.
We always protect your
identity and activity, and
there is no need to flip
a switch to ask Maps to
start respecting your
privacy because at Apple,
we believe privacy is a
fundamental human right
and we engineer it
into everything we do.
This year, we are
doing even more.
I want to focus on three big areas starting with location.
Sharing your location with
a third-party app can
really enable some useful
experiences, but we don't
expect to have that
privilege used to track us,
and so this year we are building in even more protections.
Now, for the first time,
you can share your
location to an app just
once, and then require it
to ask you again next
time it wants it.
(Applause)
And if you do choose to
grant an app the ability
to continually monitor
your location in the
background, we will give
you reports so you will
know what they are up to.
Now, some apps try to work
around these protections
by scanning for Bluetooth
or Wi-Fi signals to infer
your location.
Well, we are shutting the
door on that abuse as well.
(Applause)
Next, I want to
turn to log in.
We have all seen buttons
like this, asking us to
use a social account
log in to get a more
personalized experience
with an app.
Now, this can be
convenient, but it also
can come at the cost
of your privacy.
Your personal information
sometimes gets shared
behind the scenes and
these log ins can be used
to track you.
We wanted to solve this
and many developers do too.
So, now we have
the solution.
It's called sign
in with Apple.
(Applause)
Sign in with Apple is the
fast, easy way to sign in
without all of
the tracking.
Its simple API allows the
developer to put a sign in
with Apple button
in their app.
You just tap it and you
are authenticated with
Face ID on your device,
logged in with a new
account without revealing
any new personal information.
(Applause)
Now, some apps may want
your name, and maybe even
an email to send you
information when you are
outside the app.
Now, we do allow them to
request this information,
but check this out; you
can choose to share your
actual email address or
you can choose to hide it,
and when you do, we will
create a unique random
address that forwards
to your real address.
(Applause)
Yeah.
A lot of love for
random addresses here.
And that's good news
because we give each app a
unique random address.
This means you can disable
any one of them at any
time when you are tired
of hearing from that app.
It's really great.
(Applause)
So, of course, this entire
experience is meant to
help you have control
over your data.
Now, this is available
across all of our
platforms, and
also on the Web.
Now, next I want
to turn to HomeKit.
You know, our homes are
such personal places,
places where we deserve
to feel safe and secure.
So, HomeKit has been
designed from the outset
to protect the privacy and
security in your use of
home accessories.
And no accessory is more
personal than security
cameras that film in
and around your home.
Now, unfortunately, most
home cameras today send
people's video up to
the Cloud, so it can be
analyzed to tell the
difference between maybe a
leaf blowing in the wind
and someone at your door,
but unfortunately, this
risks your privacy.
We have a new way; it's
called HomeKit Secure Video.
Now, yes.
HomeKit Secure Video, in
that case the video is
analyzed in your home
on your resident iPad,
HomePod or Apple TV and
then it is encrypted and
securely sent to iCloud
where no one, not even
Apple, can see it.
(Applause)
Now, of course, you will
be alerted if there is any
activity, and you will be
able to review the recordings.
Now, storage for ten days
of clips will be included
in your existing iCloud
accounts and it won't
count against
your storage.
Yeah.
Netatmo, Logitech and Eufy
will be among the first to
provide these cameras
with more to come.
Now, in addition to
cameras, HomeKit supports
a wide variety of
other accessories.
But many accessories don't just connect via HomeKit; they also
connect via the Internet
and through your router.
Unfortunately, this can
leave them open to attack
and we want to make sure
that this can't happen.
And so, we are bringing
HomeKit to routers.
Now, with HomeKit at
the router, we will
automatically firewall off
each of your accessories
so even if one were to be
compromised, it wouldn't
be able to access
your other devices or
compromise your
personal information.
The first HomeKit enabled
routers will be coming
from Linksys, Eero and
Internet service providers
like Charter Spectrum.
(Applause)
Next up, Messages.
Now, we have all received
messages like this, like
who is this guy?
Well, wouldn't it be
better if you could see
something like this,
or maybe even this?
Well, now you can because
with iOS 13, you and the
people you message with
will be able to share your
name and your photo, and
even use Memoji or Animoji
to create a photo
of yourself.
Now, this information
is only shared when you
message with someone, so
you are completely in
control of who sees
your name and picture.
Now, since we are all
going to be creating a lot
more Memoji, we wanted to
make them even better at
reflecting our own
personal style, so we've
added a huge amount of
new options for makeup,
accessories and
so much more.
I would like to have some
experts give you a quick look.
>> DESI PERKINS: Hi guys.
I'm Desi Perkins.
>> PATRICK STARR: And
I'm Patrick Starr.
>> DESI PERKINS: We're
beauty influencers.
>> PATRICK STARR:
From the internet.
Today, we're going to show
you how to make a cute,
flirty Memoji look.
>> DESI PERKINS: Using
all the new makeup and
accessories in iOS 13.
>> PATRICK STARR:
Starting with eye shadow.
>> DESI PERKINS: This is my favorite eye shadow right now.
It's called Apple Fuchsia
Number Six and it comes in
this really cute
little toolbar.
>> PATRICK STARR:
Close your eyes.
Let me see.
>> DESI PERKINS: Lipstick.
>> PATRICK STARR: Pink.
>> DESI PERKINS: Red.
>> PATRICK STARR: Purple.
>> DESI PERKINS: Violet.
>> PATRICK STARR: Blue.
>> DESI PERKINS: Oh, ash?
>> PATRICK STARR: Desi,
you have to go Dark Mode.
Darker, darker.
>> DESI PERKINS:
Piercings.
>> PATRICK STARR: Nose
ring, brow ring, earring,
lip ring, tongue ring.
>> DESI PERKINS: You can
customize your teeth and hair?
Oh, braces, gap
tooth, missing tooth.
>> PATRICK STARR:
A mini grill.
>> DESI PERKINS: Earrings,
do you think this will be cool?
I'm allergic to
fake jewelry.
>> PATRICK STARR:
Okay, moving on, hair.
How about this?
>> DESI PERKINS: We have
to screenshot these.
What else?
Hats.
>> PATRICK STARR: Hats.
>> DESI PERKINS:
And glasses.
>> PATRICK STARR: Cute,
cute, cute, cute, cute, cute.
What do we have here?
>> DESI PERKINS:
Last but not least -
>> DESI PERKINS AND
PATRICK STARR: AirPods.
>> PATRICK STARR:
Everyone, these are our
finished looks.
>> DESI PERKINS: Thanks,
Pat, for joining me.
>> PATRICK STARR:
Oh, of course.
Thanks for joining me.
Don't forget to like and subscribe. Thanks.
>> DESI PERKINS: And Craig,
I have a few tips for you.
Let's connect
after the show.
(Applause)
>> CRAIG FEDERIGHI: So, I
think that's given us all
a great deal
to think about.
(Laughter)
Now, we are all going
to have a lot of fun
personalizing our own
Memoji and so we wanted to
give you even more
ways to use them.
So, we are introducing
something new.
It's called
Memoji stickers.
(Applause)
Now, instead of expressing
yourself like this with
emoji in your
conversations, you can now
do it like this.
We automatically create a
sticker pack for you for
each of your Memoji.
Now, of course, you can
use them in Messages but
we have also incorporated
them right alongside emoji
in the system keyboard so
you can use them in apps
like Mail or your favorite
other apps like WeChat.
And we have made these
usable not just in more
apps but also on more
devices because while
actually animating a
Memoji puppet with your
face requires a device
with a True Depth Camera
System, Memoji stickers
and support for the Memoji
editor is now supported
for all devices with an A9
chip or later.
Next.
(Applause)
Next, I want to turn to
Camera and Photos where we
have given you great new
ways to capture, edit, and
experience your photos.
Now, I'm going to start
with Portrait Lighting
where we put the power of
the studio right in your pocket.
In iOS 13, we are
taking Portrait Lighting to
a new level.
And it starts with a
brand-new effect we call
high key mono.
It looks just amazing.
Now, we are also extending
Portrait Lighting so you
can adjust the intensity
of the Lighting Effect
just like you could in a
lighting studio by moving
the lights closer or
farther away from your subject.
So, when you increase the
intensity of the light,
it's like virtually
moving the light closer.
This has the effect
of smoothing skin,
brightening eyes and
facial features.
Or you can pull it back
for a subtle, more refined look.
And we adapt this effect
uniquely to each style of
Portrait Lighting.
Next, I want to
turn to photo editing.
We have a brand-new
experience so that you
control every
element of your photo.
You can see at a glance
all of your settings, and
with just a tap and a drag,
you can make adjustments.
It applies across all of
our existing effects and
many more that
are new to iOS 13.
But we are - yes.
(Applause)
But what's really cool is
we are bringing all of
this to video for
the first time.
(Applause)
Now - so now, for the first time, you can rotate a video.
How about it?
(Applause)
But, of course, much more.
You can apply filters and
all of these effects.
It's just awesome.
But, you know, our biggest
change this year is in the
way you can browse and
experience your photos.
You know, we all have
so many photos in our
library, so much great
stuff in there, but it's
all often weighed down by
pictures of receipts and
white boards and
screenshots.
So, now we are using
advanced machine learning
to remove duplicates and
clutter and let you focus
on your best shots.
And we are taking these
photos and we are
intelligently organizing
them to create a sort of
diary of your life.
Using this, you will be
amazed at how you discover
the moments in your life
that matter to you the most.
Now, we do all of this
inside a brand-new Photos tab.
And so, to show it to you,
I would like to bring up
the leader of our photos
app team, Justin Titi, to
give you a live demo.
Justin?
>> JUSTIN TITI:
Thanks, Craig.
I'm so excited to show you
guys the new Photos app.
Let's get started.
So, here we are
in all photos.
It's got a new home right
here in the Photos tab.
We have also given you
more control over how you
can view all
of your photos.
You can simply pinch to
zoom out and see a bunch
of photos or you can zoom
in and see more detail.
It is really
fast and fluid.
Now, as you can see, I
take a ton of photos of my
kids trying to capture
that perfect moment.
Oftentimes my best shots
get lost in the sea of images.
That's what days is for.
I just tap down
here at the bottom.
You can see days is
absolutely beautiful.
The clutter of the
similar photos is gone.
I can just scroll
and enjoy now.
So, Photos uses
intelligence to create
these stunning
layouts of my photos.
Every day looks great.
And you can see videos
like this time lapse play
automatically for me,
really bringing my library
back to life.
As do live photos help me
relive those really fun moments.
And a simple trip to the
farmer's market makes me
feel like a
professional photographer.
So, days is simply the
best way to browse your photos.
So, let's check
out months.
I just tap and even moving between views is beautiful.
So, months organizes the
most meaningful events in
my library by month.
So here is a trip I took
to Tahoe, my kids' last
day of school, and
my wife's birthday.
Now, this is a video we
all take but we usually
forget to enjoy and now
it's playing for me right here.
Really fun concert, and,
of course, WWDC from last year;
these labs were a blast.
So, that's months.
It makes it really easy to
browse the greatest hits
of your library
in one view.
So, let's head
over to years.
So, years gives me a high-level overview of my library.
What makes years really
special is that it's
dynamic based
on my context.
So today is WWDC and
photos knows I go to WWDC
every year, so now it's
showing me all of my WWDCs
from the past.
Go try it out.
It's awesome.
(Applause)
I can go all the way back
- I can go all of the way
back to my first
WWDC in 2011.
I was so excited to
be at that keynote.
Now, years can
do so much more.
What if today was my
daughter's birthday?
Let me show you what
that would look like.
So, years is totally
transformed now and it's
all about my daughter.
As a proud dad, this
brings me so much joy.
She's grown up so fast.
Her first bike, these fun
times when every meal was
a mess, and this
is her first smile.
And this video just brings
that moment right back to
life for me.
I can just tap and I can
relive that whole great day.
So that's the
new Photos app.
We think you are really
going to love it.
Back to you, Craig.
(Applause)
>> CRAIG FEDERIGHI:
Thank you, Justin.
We are so excited to
have you try this out.
When you experience it
with your own photos, it's
a very meaningful experience.
So, that's Camera and
Photos, and as you can
see, there is so much to
experience in iOS 13.
And now, while much of our
interaction with iPhone is
through touch, we
also experience iOS in so
many other ways.
We use iOS when we are on
the go with our AirPods,
when we gather around to
listen to our favorite
music on HomePod.
And when we are on the
road with CarPlay.
And, of course, tying
together all of these
experiences is Siri.
So, to take you through
what's new with AirPods,
HomePod, CarPlay, and
Siri, I would like to
invite to the stage Stacey
Lysik, our Senior Director
of OS Program Management
to the program and to the stage.
Stacey.
(Applause)
>> STACEY LYSIK:
Thanks, Craig.
Let's get started with
AirPods where we have a
couple of great new
features coming to iOS 13.
First, when you are
wearing AirPods, Siri will
now be able to read your
incoming messages to you
as soon as they arrive and
you can instantly respond.
Let's take a quick peek
and see how it works.
>> SIRI: Amy said, "Can
you meet for coffee at 9:00 am?"
>> MALE SPEAKER: Tell
her I'll be there.
>> SIRI: It's sent.
(Applause)
>> STACEY LYSIK: Just like
that, Siri helps you stay
in the moment, whether
the incoming notification
comes from the Messages
app or any third-party
messaging app
using SiriKit.
(Applause)
Another great new feature
is audio sharing.
We have all had a time
where we wanted to share a
movie or a song
with a friend.
Now, you can,
with just a tap.
(Applause)
Like everything AirPods,
the experience is magical.
And when you get home,
there is no better way to
keep the music going than
with HomePod and its
incredible sound quality.
To make that transition
seamless, we are bringing
Handoff to HomePod.
(Applause)
Now, when you walk through
the door, just bring your
iPhone close to your
HomePod to instantly hand
off your music, a Podcast
or even a phone call.
And you can just take it
with you when you leave
the exact same way.
(Applause)
Today, we are
introducing Live Radio.
So, you can ask Siri
to play stations from
iHeartRadio, Tune
In, and Radio.com.
In fact, we have over
100,000 radio stations
from all around the world.
(Applause)
Now, HomePod can learn
to recognize who in your
family is talking and
personalize the response.
(Applause)
Of course, this is great
with Apple Music so now
when you ask Siri to play
you some music, it is
based on your taste and
your play history and not
anyone else's, and the
personalization extends
way beyond music to
Messages, Reminders, Notes
and more.
So that's HomePod.
Next, let's shift
gears to CarPlay.
CarPlay leads the
industry in adoption with
availability more than 90%
of cars sold here in the
US and 75% of cars
sold globally.
This year, we have our
biggest update to CarPlay
since the beginning.
It all starts with the
CarPlay dashboard where
you can now have your
music next to your maps
and you still have
room for Siri smart
suggestions, like a garage
door opener when you get
close to home or a view of
your next calendar event.
You can see your whole day
in the new Calendar app.
Music has been redesigned
so your album art is front
and center and beautiful.
Siri stays out of the way
so you don't lose sight of
what's on the display.
Siri has always been great
for getting directions or
asking for some music and
it now works with third
party apps like
Pandora and Waze.
(Applause)
As you saw, Siri is with
you across so much of what
we do on iOS, and last
year Siri became even more
powerful with the
introduction of Siri Shortcuts.
Shortcuts enable you to
use your apps through Siri
and in the Shortcuts app,
you can create your own
personalized
multi-step Shortcut.
Now, on iOS 13, the app is
built right in and it is
more powerful than ever.
It is now the one place
you access all of your
Shortcuts, including ones
you have added to Siri,
and we make it easier to
get started with your
first multistep shortcut
using a new feature called
suggested automations
which take your habits and
personalize it to a
template like heading home
or going to the gym.
Integral across all of these experiences is how Siri sounds.
When we first started with
Siri's voice, we used
short clips of audio from
actor recordings, but
sometimes when we put them
together, it didn't always
sound as natural as
we wanted it to be.
So, this year we have
taken a huge step forward
using cutting edge Machine
Learning called Neural
Text to Speech where for
the first time ever, the
voice you hear is entirely
generated by software.
As a result, it's more
- it has more natural
cadence and
better emphasis.
It's most noticeable when
Siri is speaking longer or
more complex sentences.
Let's have a listen
together starting with iOS 12.
>> SIRI: Absolute zero is
the lowest limit of the
thermodynamic temperature
scale, a state at which
the enthalpy and entropy
of a cooled ideal gas
reach their minimum
value taken as zero.
>> STACEY LYSIK: All right.
So, that's okay.
But now let's try iOS
13 with Neural Text to Speech.
>> SIRI: Absolute zero is
the lowest limit of the
thermodynamic temperature
scale, a state at which
the enthalpy and entropy
of a cooled ideal gas
reach their minimum
value taken as zero.
>> STACEY LYSIK:
Way better.
(Applause)
So, that's Siri along with AirPods, HomePod and CarPlay.
Thank you.
Back to you, Craig.
>> CRAIG FEDERIGHI:
Thank you, Stacey.
So, that's our next big
release of iOS, iOS 13,
and there is so much we
didn't have time to talk
about, like the ability
to deal with call spam by
sending unknown callers
directly to voice mail.
Yes.
(Applause)
Or low data mode or for
our enterprise customers,
the ability to single sign
on to enterprise accounts
and have separate iCloud
accounts for your personal
and work lives.
(Applause)
So, you may notice there
has been one thing missing
from the iOS 13 story
and that's iPad.
Yes.
(Applause)
Now, from the beginning,
iPad has been built on the
technical foundations of
iOS, so, of course, it
gets all of these great
new features that we are
bringing to iPhone.
But over the years, iPad
has also evolved into
something unique.
You know, with its giant
canvas and powerful
features like slide over
and split view, drag and
drop and Apple Pencil,
iPad delivers an
experience that
is truly distinct.
We have some big changes
coming to iPad this year
and the time has come to
recognize the platform in
a special way.
Let's take a look.
(Music)
(Applause)
>> CRAIG FEDERIGHI:
That's right.
We are calling it iPad OS
and I would like to give
you a first look.
So, let's take a
look at iPad OS.
Swipe home and the first
thing you notice is this
tighter grid of icons,
letting you have more
tools at your disposal
right on your Home screen.
But what I think is super
cool is watch what happens
when I swipe over.
I can now pin my Widgets
right on my Home screen.
(Applause)
It's gorgeous.
You get a lot of
information at a glance.
Let's turn to
multitasking.
Let's start
with slide over.
Launch into Safari and
let's just slide over from
the right-hand
side of the screen.
You can see I have
messages there right now.
Now, I can, of course,
change the app I have
in slide over.
I can just pick up
Reminders and drag it on over.
Now, I have Reminders in
slide over so next time I
slide out, of course,
there is Reminders.
But what if I want to get
back to the last app?
Could we make
that super easy?
The answer is yes.
I can just drag from the
bottom and they fan out
just like that.
(Applause)
With just a tap,
I can switch apps.
I can even just slide
along the bottom to move
quickly between my
apps in slide over.
It's really great.
Now, next, I would like
to talk about Split View
because now we are
bringing multiwindow
capabilities to
apps on iPad.
For instance, I have a
single note right here in
Notes, but what with I
want to have two notes
side by side?
Well, now I can.
I can tap, drag, and now
I have a split with two notes.
(Applause)
Now, I can use this across
spaces as well, so here I
have two notes, but here
I have a Pages document.
What if I have some notes
I want to use while
working on my
Pages document?
Well, I am just going to
slide on over, pick up
another note, and I can
just move back to my Pages
space and drop
it over there.
Now, I have Pages
right next to Notes.
Now that I have notes in
all of these different spaces,
well, you can guess
how I can find them, right?
I just bring up the dock,
tap on Notes, and we have
app expos now on iPad.
Here are all of my Notes
spaces in one place.
Now, this just doesn't
work for system apps.
It also works for third
party apps as well.
So, in addition to Notes
here and Pages, I can have
two Microsoft Word
documents side by side.
I mean, that's
enterprising right there.
(Laughter)
And it works great for
some of the work flows in
apps like Mail.
So, for instance, let's
say I want to reply to
this message from Phil.
Well, I can just of course
start typing to Phil and
then I realize, you know,
I would actually like to draw
on some of my other contents
of my inbox for this reply.
I can drag that compose
window off to the side
into Split View, even
create a split so I can
see all of my messages.
I can tap through
these other messages.
If I find an image I want
to put to my message to
Phil, just tap, drag it
out just like that, and
check this out; if there
is a link I want to
preview, just
tap and hold.
I get a preview
of that web page.
That looks
perfect for Phil.
Just drop it right in
here just like that.
Better composing through
multitasking on iPad.
And that's a quick look at
the new Home screen and
new Multitasking in iPad OS.
(Applause)
But there is a lot more.
Let's start with Files.
Now, browsing in Files,
of course, you have
icon view, list view.
Well, how about
column view?
Great for digging through
deep file hierarchies.
You get a great file
preview right here and
quick actions for things
like rotating documents -
images, making PDFs, and
great rich metadata right
at the bottom.
Now, we are also improving the way that you can share files.
For instance, in iCloud Drive, we now support folder sharing.
(Applause)
And get this; we also have
built in support for SMB
file sharing so you can
share from your work PC,
home PC, right
in the files.
Now, there is one more.
That's right, you can now
plug in a thumb drive.
(Applause)
So, thumb drives, external
disk drives and SD cards,
all show up right in the
Files app, but now this
one is really great too.
Sometimes when you are
working with a camera, you
would like to import
directly into an app like
Light Room and
now you can.
(Applause)
Of course, there
is much, much more.
It's a huge year for Files
this year, and it's also a
huge year for Safari.
You know, Safari is just
the perfect device for
browsing the Internet.
It's like holding the web
in your hands and this
year we are making Safari
more capable than ever.
When you look at the Web
today, it's often split
into kind of two
big categories.
On the one hand, you have
the mobile Web designed
for the small screen
and mobile devices, and
desktop sites that are
designed for large screens
like on your Mac.
And often, websites will
serve up the wrong thing
for the iPad.
Well, no more because we
are bringing desktop class
browsing to
Safari on iPad.
(Applause)
Now, with this, Safari
does all of the heavy
lifting, so instead of the
mobile site, you will see
the desktop site but it
will be sized perfectly
for the iPad display
and have automatically
optimized for touch input.
Now, this also works great
for apps like Google Docs,
Square Space
and Word Press.
They all work great in
Safari now and the desktop
class experience
doesn't stop there.
We are also bringing
a download manager to Safari.
(Applause)
Thirty new keyboard
shortcuts and much, much more.
Next, I want to
talk about fonts.
Now, we all know that
fonts bring out the
personality of a project,
and this year we are
giving you a new way to
use custom fonts inside of
your favorite apps.
You will be able to
download them right from
the App Store.
We are working with all
of the major providers of fonts.
Next, we are taking a
big leap forward in text
editing, making it even faster with the power of Multi Touch.
So, navigating long
documents, you can now
grab the scroll indicator
and jump anywhere in the
document instantly.
(Applause)
Now, moving the cursor
is easier than ever.
Just pick it up, and drag
it where you want it to go.
And selecting text, just
put your finger down and
drag out a selection.
There is no need to double
tap and no magnifying
glass getting in your way.
And yeah.
And when you have a
selection, check this out,
you want to copy or cut,
just a three-finger pinch
to copy, and a
three-finger spread to
plop it right down.
This works across
all sorts of apps.
(Applause)
And if you make a mistake,
don't worry, just a
three-finger
swipe to undo.
No more shaking that iPad.
(Applause)
Finally, I would like to
talk about Apple Pencil.
Apple Pencil has quickly
become an indispensable
tool for so
many iPad users.
It's just perfect for
marking up documents,
taking notes or
doing illustration.
A critical part of
that experience is the
incredible low latency
of Apple Pencil.
You know, our goal
was to have it just be
indistinguishable for
making marks on a physical
piece of paper.
Now, Apple Pencil already
leads the industry with a
record low twenty
millisecond latency, but
we have been optimizing
and advancing our
prediction algorithms and
today we are bringing that
latency down to
9 milliseconds.
It's incredible.
(Applause)
Now, of course, an
important part of your
experience using your
Pencil is a great tool
palette and a great set of
tools, and so now in iPad OS,
we have redesigned it
and we are providing a
PencilKit developer API so
third-party apps can have
the same great experience.
We have also made it a lot
easier to markup anything
on any app.
You can just drag your
pencil up from the corner
of the screen and just
like that you are you
are in markup.
You can markup a
screenshot or even an
entire document.
This works just great
throughout the system.
Now, to show you Pencil in
action, I would like to
invite up Toby Paterson,
our Senior Director in
charge of the iPad system
experience, to give you a demo.
Toby.
(Applause)
>> TOBY PATERSON:
Thanks, Craig.
Okay.
Well, let's jump into
Notes here and take a look
at the new text
editing gestures.
It begins with a tap to
place the cursor up there
at the top of the screen,
and then to move the
cursor, we will just grab
it with your finger, oops
- grab it with your
finger, put it exactly
where you want it.
Now, for typing, there is
the standard keyboard, of
course, but watch what
happens when I pinch on it
with two fingers.
It shrinks down to a new
compact layout and this is
really great for typing
with one finger or your
thumb while you're
holding your iPad.
(Applause)
I know.
I do this a lot.
And you can use
quick path here.
Oops.
Just like that.
Now, to select text, just
hold your finger on a
word, sorry.
Hold your finger on a word
and just drag it out like
that and our new gestures
make text editing a breeze.
It's a three-finger pinch,
once to copy or twice in a
row to cut, and then a
three finger drop gesture
to paste it into
place like that.
Now to -
(Applause)
It's really easy.
Now, to undo your
gestures, or to undo your
changes, I want to
reassure you, you can
still shake your iPad if
you want, but I do find
the three-finger swipe
to the left a little bit easier.
I also want to note that
these gestures are not
limited to text
editing only.
They will work in any
application that supports
copy/paste, undo and redo.
Okay.
Let's switch now and
talk about the pencil.
So, you can see here at
the tool palette with its
beautiful new design, the
new tools, and now you can
drag it around the
screen like this.
You can pin it to any
edge of the screen, you
minimize it down in the
bottom like that, and then
with a tap or a drag,
open it back up again.
Now, of course, Notes has
been tailor made to work
really well with the
Pencil, but you can
actually use this to
markup any application on
the - on your iPad.
Let's switch over to
Safari here and I will
show you how this works.
So, Craig has put me
in charge of the next
software offsite and I
want to share an idea with him.
So, check this out.
Watch as I drag from the
corner of the iPad with my
Pencil like this.
It takes you right into
markup where you can see a
screenshot of exactly
what you were looking at.
But many apps can now
support a new full-page
capture mode which you select with this button at the top.
Here you can see the
entire document that you
were looking at.
You can scroll through it
or use the side bar on the
right to quickly navigate
and as you would expect,
you can mark it up with
your pencil just like this.
I will bet we've got a few
Rush fans in the crowd
here today, I think.
(Applause)
Yes.
I think Craig would make
a great Alex Lifeson.
Now, when you're done,
just bring up the share
sheet and you can send it
off right from here and
that's how you can easily
markup anything on your iPad.
Back to you now, Craig.
Thank you.
(Applause)
>> CRAIG FEDERIGHI:
Thank you, Toby.
Those are some great
improvements to Apple
Pencil and so much
more for iPad OS.
There are a ton of great
new features that take
iPad OS to the next level.
Well, that's what
I have for you now.
I'm going to hand
it back to Tim.
Thank you so much.
(Applause)
>> TIM COOK:
Thank you, Craig.
These are just blow
away huge releases.
iPad OS built on the
foundation of iOS takes
the distinctive experience
of iPad even further.
In a powerful new version
of iOS, iOS 13, we can't
wait for all of you to
get your hands on these
great new releases.
Now, let's turn
to the Mac.
(Applause)
We love the Mac and
our customers do too.
In fact, the Mac is the
number one in customer
satisfaction by far
in the industry.
People use their Macs to
create amazing things,
simply and powerfully.
We have the strongest Mac
lineup we have ever had,
from the new MacBook Air
all the way up to the
power house iMac Pro.
And for Mac users looking
to really push the limits
of performance, there
is one more spot in our
lineup that the team has been working really hard to fill.
(Applause)
Yes.
To create a product that
will take Mac further than
it's ever gone before
and I am so excited and
thrilled to show
it to you now.
(Applause)
(Music)
>> TIM COOK: This is the new MacPro and it's incredible.
(Applause)
It has a truly gorgeous
design and remarkable
performance to match.
It is the most powerful
Mac we have ever created.
And to tell you all about
it, I would like to invite
John Ternus to the stage.
John.
(Applause)
>> JOHN TERNUS:
Thank you, Tim.
I am so excited to be able to tell you about this new MacPro.
Now, in designing this
product, we wanted to
build an architecture that
could meet the incredible
diversity of pro needs,
a system that offers
virtually unlimited
possibilities for customization.
And key to this is a
simple and elegant
solution for accessing
the internal components.
Now, inside you will find
a stainless steel frame
that forms a strong
internal structure for the
entire system and it
provides a foundation for
modularity and
flexibility.
The frame also
incorporates stainless
steel handles.
They feel great in your
hand and they make it easy
to move the system around.
All of the internal
modules mount to this
frame which means users
have 360-degree access to
easily configure
components and every sub
system has been optimized
for performance.
So, let's start
with the processor.
Now, we have designed
this new MacPro for our
customers who need
the ultimate in CPU
performance for tasks like
production rendering or
playing back hundreds of
virtual instruments or
simulating an iOS app on
multiple devices at once.
So, we are using a
brand-new Intel Xeon
Processor and it has up
to twenty-eight cores.
(Applause)
And to get every last
ounce of performance out
of this processor, we are
giving it over 300 watts
of power and a massive heat
sink for cooling so this means
it can run fully
unconstrained all of the time.
Now, we also have an
extremely high-performance
memory architecture.
Six channels of super fast
ECC memory in 12 DIMM
slots enable an incredible
1.5 terabytes of system memory.
(Applause)
Now, let's talk
about expansion.
Many of our pro customers
need to add things like
fiber channel or audio
DPSs or SDI video to their
systems, so we are
bringing PCI expansion
back to the Mac
in a big way.
(Applause)
Because this new MacPro
has eight internal PCI slots.
There are four double wide
slots and three single
wide slots, and there is
one additional half-length
slot that we populate
with an I/O card.
Now, this I/O card has two
Thunderbolt 3 ports, two
USB-A ports and an audio
jack and there are also
two more Thunderbolt 3
ports conveniently located
on the top of the system.
And finally, the MacPro
has two built-in 10
gigabit ethernet ports.
So, one of the most
critical areas of
expansion is graphics.
Graphics performance is so
important for tasks like
animating 3D film assets
or compositing 8K scenes
or building complex 3D
environments, but we
wanted to go beyond the
typical graphics card
design so we've invented
something completely new.
Now, it starts with an
industry standard PCI
connector, so the slot
maintains compatibility
with standard cards.
We have added a second
connector that allows us
to integrate Thunderbolt
throughout the entire system
and provide a tremendous
amount of extra power.
In fact, at 500 watts,
this module has the same
power capacity as the entire previous generation MacPro.
And instead of adding its
own dedicated fan, we have
a huge heat sink that's
quietly cooled by the
MacPro thermal system.
We call this the MacPro
expansion module or MPX
for short, and using this
architecture we are going
to offer multiple graphics
options, starting with the
Radeon Pro 580X, a great
all-around graphics card.
For a big upgrade in
graphics performance, the
MacPro can be configured
with AMD's Radeon Pro Vega II.
Vega II delivers 14
teraflops of graphics
compute and 32 gigabytes
of memory with an insane
1 terabyte per second
of memory bandwidth.
But we didn't stop there
because with the increased
head room of the MPX
module, we can actually
use two Vega II GPUs for
double the teraflops,
double the memory and
double the memory bandwidth.
This is quite simply
the world's most
powerful graphics card.
Now, these two GPUs are
connected by the Infinity
Fabric Link which allows
data transfer between them
at five times faster
than the PCI BUS.
This is a really big
deal for apps that are
optimized to take
advantage of multiple GPUs.
And if all of this wasn't
crazy enough, the MacPro
can be configured with
two of these modules.
(Applause)
Enabling up to 56
teraflops and 128
gigabytes of high
bandwidth memory.
This is an unbelievable
amount of graphics compute
in a single workstation.
Now, we have also done
something really special
for video editing.
One of the challenges in
working with high quality
cameras is the need to
convert the native files
into proxies for
easier editing.
This is a time consuming
and error prone process.
Being able to work
directly with the native
formats would be a game
changer in these high end
work flows so we have
built a brand-new card
that we call Afterburner
and it turns your MacPro
into a monster of a
video editing machine.
Afterburner is a hardware
accelerator card that is
built with an FPGA which
is a programmable ASIC and
this ASIC is capable of
processing 6 billion
pixels per second.
(Applause)
So, with this custom
solution, we have achieved
an unprecedented level of
performance for the ProRes
and ProRes RAW codecs.
The most powerful
workstations in the world
today struggle to play
back just one stream of 8K
video, but with
Afterburner, the new
MacPro can play back an
incredible three streams
of 8K Pro Res RAW.
(Applause)
Or 12 streams of 4K.
This is ground breaking
performance and it means
we can finally say goodbye
to proxy workflows.
Now, of course, all of
this compute requires a
massive amount of power,
and so we have given every
MacPro a 1.4 kilowatt
power supply.
Of course, all of
that power requires a
tremendously capable
cooling system.
So, the MacPro has three
enormous fans and one
blower that together can
generate up to 300 cubic
feet per minute of air
flow and it's very quiet.
In fact, when it's under
your desk in typical load
conditions, it's as
quiet as an iMac Pro.
To seal the thermal
system, the beautiful
aluminum housing slides over the frame and latches into place.
And its unique
three-dimensional vents
are actually machined on
both the internal and
external surfaces.
The resulting lightweight
lattice pattern maximizes
air flow while creating an
extremely rigid structure.
And finally, optional
wheels make it easy to
move the MacPro
around your studio.
(Applause)
As you can see, utility
and function define the
design of the new MacPro,
and while the specs we
have been talking about
are impressive, we have
really been focused on
delivering real world
performance where
it matters most.
To do that, we have been
working closely with a
number of pro
app developers.
This includes Adobe, Auto
Desk, Serif and Blackmagic
who are all announcing support for the new MacPro today.
In fact, Blackmagic is
seeing some amazing
performance gains.
With the Afterburner card
doing the heavy lifting of
decoding video, they can
tap into the CPU and GPUs
to add effects and
coloring in real time on
native 8K content.
This is a work flow that
has never been possible
before the new MacPro.
Side FX, Red, Epic
and Avid are also
announcing support today.
(Applause)
Avid is taking advantage
of the incredible
expansion capabilities of
the MacPro to do something
never before possible in
a single work station.
They are enabling support
for up to six HDX cards.
This yields more I/O,
increased voices and two
times the DSP processing than any other system can achieve.
3D app developers like
Unity, Pixar, Foundry and
Maxon are also
announcing support.
Maxon is seeing 20% faster
GPU render performance in
Cinema 4D than on a
Windows work station maxed
out with three of the
latest Nvidia Quadro cards.
We are really excited to
announce that Maxon is
bringing their Redshift
render engine to the Mac
optimized for Metal.
And finally -
(Applause)
There you go.
The folks at Otoy are
already hard at work
building a version of
Octane that is really
going to shine with the
incredible GPU performance
of the new MacPro.
We are thrilled by the
excitement and commitment
we are seeing from all of
these great developers.
And, of course, our own
internal app teams are
really excited about
the MacPro as well.
So, now, I would like to
bring up David Earl from
our Pro X marketing team
to give you a firsthand
look at some of the
amazing things you can do
in Logic and Final
Cut on the new MacPro.
David?
(Applause)
>> DAVID EARL:
Thanks, John.
I am thrilled to show you
Logic Pro 10 running on
the new MacPro.
To get started, we are
going to open up this
music score from a
documentary we are working
on that was shot in Kenya.
What you see here is a
Logic project and every
row is a track and every
track represents an
individual musical
instrument performance.
So, let's have a listen.
(Music)
Okay.
So, we wanted to have some
fun and see just how far
we could push this
powerful new Mac.
What you are looking
at here is a brand-new
version of Logic and the
theme of this release is
all about performance.
So, to show performance
I'm going to use these
incredibly realistic
sampler instrument libraries.
I use the libraries so
that it sounds exactly
like a real orchestra
when I create my parts.
So, let's add a 50
piece percussion ensemble
to the score.
And you know what, how about
a 100-piece orchestra?
And how about another full
orchestra just because,
you know, we can.
Now, many composers have
to actually add a second
and third computer to be
able to run these massive
orchestral libraries, but
the new MacPro with CPU
power and RAM can do this
all in a single unit.
So, of course, I'm going
to need a lot more to
push this MacPro.
So, let's add a
ton more tracks.
So, we have never seen
this before in Logic.
I have got 300, 400, 500,
we can now have a thousand
audio tracks and a
thousand software
instruments in Logic.
(Applause)
That's four times the
amount that we had in our
previous version of Logic,
and, of course, with all
of this going on we
have to check the CPU.
Opening the performance
meter, that is 56 threads
across 28 cores with more
tracks and plug-ins than
we have ever seen
before in Logic.
The MacPro still
has power to spare.
It's a monster
for running Logic.
Okay.
Now, let's take this music
score over to Final Cut.
It's the Soundtrack for
this beautiful documentary
that was all shot
and edited in HDR.
It follows Ami Vitale.
She is a world-renowned
photo journalist on a
recent assignment to Kenya.
Now, what we see here, we
have never seen before in a Mac.
This is 8K ProRes RAW
playing back at full resolution.
Now, what makes 8K so
amazing is that there are
over 33 million pixels in
every frame which means it
looks great on a huge
display like this, but it
includes enough resolution
that we can crop in and
reframe for 4K projects
and, you know, we can add
8K effects in real-time
like this animated title,
and I think I'm going
to go in and add some
advanced color correction
and lens flare without stopping.
I don't have to wait
for it to render.
Now, so far we have been
watching a single stream
of 8K ProRes RAW but this
computer has Afterburner
installed which means we
can push it even further
and we can have our single
stream of 8K ProRes RAW,
add another stream of 8K
and how about a third
stream 8K ProRes RAW
running simultaneously.
That's 100 million pixels.
This has never been seen.
(Applause)
Never been seen before on
any video editing software
on any computer.
The MacPro is an 8K power
house and absolutely by
far the most powerful Mac
that's ever been created
for professional film
makers and musicians.
Thank you.
Back to you, John.
(Applause)
>> JOHN TERNUS:
Thank you, David.
That performance is nuts.
So that is the new MacPro.
It is the most
configurable, most
expandable and by far the most powerful Mac we have ever made.
But, of course, an
extraordinary computer
deserves an extraordinary
display, and to tell you
more about that, I would
like to bring out Colleen
Novielli from the Mac
Product Marketing Team.
Colleen?
(Applause)
>> COLLEEN NOVIELLI:
Thank you, John.
Good morning.
Displays are incredibly
important to our pro
customers because they
play a vital role in
creating their
life's best work.
Yet today, if you look at
their wish list, there is
no single display that
gives them every feature
they have asked for, and this one feature, High Dynamic Range
or HDR, it's increasingly requested because it's yet
to be delivered with
pro level precision.
So, what is HDR?
HDR is a way to bring
content to life by better
reflecting what the eye
can see in the real world.
The eye sees the brightest
specular highlights,
really dark blacks,
vibrant, rich color and
all of the details
in between.
Today, more and more
devices can play HDR
content so more and more
pros who create that
content, they need
a great HDR display.
There is one
class of displays.
It's commonly called
reference monitors and
these do deliver true HDR
along with these features,
but they are still missing
these features and they
are incredibly expensive.
This one is $43,000.
So, our goal,
it was simple.
Make a display that
expertly delivers every
feature that pros
have asked for.
Like the MacPro, the
design is stunning and
every element is
built for pros.
And it's the most
incredible panel we
have ever made.
It's a 32-inch LCD display
with over 20 million
pixels, and with 218
pixels per inch, it's a
6K retina display.
(Applause)
It's the largest retina
display we have ever made.
It's over 40% larger than
the iMac 5K display,
giving pros even more room for their tools and their content.
It has P3 and true 10-bit color and reference modes built in.
All expertly calibrated
at the factory.
And we keep that color
accurate at a super wide
viewing angle by using a
cutting-edge polarizer.
For contrast, that's
twenty-five times better
than a typical
LCD display.
(Applause)
It's awesome.
Now, the cover glass has our industry leading antireflective
coating, but for challenging lighting conditions,
we have created an
innovative matte option.
So, most matte displays,
they add a coating to the
glass and this coating, it
scatters the light, but it also
adds unwanted haze and sparkle and it lowers the contrast.
So instead, we precisely
etch the glass itself for
a nano texture surface and
this means enhanced image
quality and contrast along
with low reflectivity.
Next, we have delivered HDR at a level never seen before.
Now, for great HDR
images, you need extreme
brightness right next to
extreme contrast or deep
blacks, and this is
incredibly hard to achieve.
So, we have designed a
back-lighting system like
none other in the world.
First, a large array
of blue LEDs generates
extreme brightness.
We calibrate every single
LED on every single
display at the factory and
then this feeds a massive
algorithm and then this
modulates each LED based
on the content rapidly.
Then we use custom lenses
and reflectors to actually
shape and precisely
control the light.
Now, a typical thermal
system would make this
impossible to achieve for
more than a few minutes.
So, we did
something amazing.
We designed the rear
lattice pattern to act as
a heat sink and this
doubles the surface area,
quietly extracting
heat from each LED.
The results are
incredible.
This display can maintain
1,000 nits of full screen
brightness indefinitely.
(Applause)
Forever.
And 1,600 nits peak.
And this is going to allow
our pros to do things they
have been dreaming about.
So, for example, video
editors can now work with
their HDR content exactly
as it's intended and
photographers can now edit
an amazing HDR image like
this for hours.
And that is not all.
Those images are going to
have gorgeous, incredibly
nuanced contrast, an
incredible one million to
one contrast ratio.
(Applause)
The images this display
produces are truly stunning.
With these capabilities,
we have taken this way
beyond High Dynamic Range.
This is extreme dynamic
range or XDR, and so we
call this display
the Pro Display XDR.
(Applause)
So now, we have delivered every feature on the pro wish list,
but there is more.
Thunderbolt 3 will provide
seamless one cable connectivity.
So, with a 15-inch MacBook
Pro, you can have a
stunning two display
desktop setup or with the
new MacPro, you can
connect an incredible six
displays with 6K
resolution, 120 million pixels.
Yes.
(Applause)
Woo.
Yeah.
That's right.
Now, there is one more
feature that does not get
much attention on other
displays and that's the
stand which is as pro
as the display itself.
First, it has an amazing
counter balancing arm that
makes the display feel
virtually weightless.
It provides tilt and
height adjustment and it
maintains the display's
angle as it's raised or
it's lowered and it has
rotation for Portrait Mode.
Yes.
(Applause)
And this is perfect
for retouching photos,
designing a web page
or writing code.
Yeah.
And it's removable.
It quickly detaches from
the display to pack it up
and take it on location.
And finally, for pros
with unique mounting
requirements, we have
designed a base amount
adapter that attaches
in a matter of seconds.
So, that's the new
Pro Display XDR.
It's the only display in
the industry that delivers
every feature on a pro's
wish list and more.
And now, all pros can use
the same display across
the work flow and have
the same incredible XDR
viewing experience with
all of the features they
need to create their
life's best work, making
this the world's
best Pro Display.
And now back to you, John.
(Applause)
>> JOHN TERNUS:
Thanks, Colleen.
So that's the new MacPro
and Pro Display XDR.
Groundbreaking in every
way, they deliver
performance and
capabilities that will
forever change
pro workflows.
Now, the new MacPro is
going to start with an
eight core Xeon processor,
32 gigabytes of memory,
Radeon Pro 580X and
a 256 gigabyte SSD.
If you look at other
systems configured with
comparable components, you will see they cost around $8,000.
The new MacPro will
start at $5,999.
(Applause)
And it's going to be
available this fall.
Now, we know a lot of
customers who use the
MacPro really want to be
able to rack mount them in
edit bays and
machine rooms.
So, to support this, we
are also going to have a
version optimized
for rack deployment.
(Applause)
As for the Pro Display
XDR, well, the reference
monitors that we talked
about can cost tens of
thousands of dollars and still not match the feature set.
The Pro Display XDR will be $4,999 for the display itself.
And the nano texture
version will be $5,999.
The VESA mount
adapter will be $199 and
the pro stand, $999.
And like the MacPro, they will all be available in the fall.
So that is the new MacPro
and Pro Display XDR.
Now, back to Tim.
>> TIM COOK: Thank you.
Thank you, John, and
thank you Colleen.
We can't wait to get the
new MacPro and the Pro
Display XDR into the hands
of our pro users and see
all the great things they
are going to create with them.
Now, powering the Mac
experience is macOS, the
world's most advanced
desktop Operating System.
(Applause)
The latest release of
macOS is Mojave with
system-wide Dark Mode and
new features for both
finder and desktop that
were inspired by pro users
but designed for everyone.
It's been a huge hit
with Mac customers.
The next release of macOS
brings more exciting new
features to the Mac, and
to tell you all about it,
I'd like to invite Craig
back to the stage.
Craig.
(Applause)
>> CRAIG FEDERIGHI: Great to be back with all of you again.
So, for our next major
release of macOS, we are
moving out of the desert
into the beautiful waters
off the California coast,
a place for sailing,
diving and so much more.
It's macOS Catalina.
(Applause)
Now, Catalina includes
cool new features, some
really fresh new apps and
some powerful technology
for Developers.
Let's take a look.
We begin with iTunes.
Now, iTunes started
completely focused, rip,
mix, and burn
songs on your Mac.
And then came the iTunes
Music Store kicking off
the digital music
revolution.
And then it took on Podcasts
and it redefined radio.
And then video,
introducing us to
on-demand movies and
ad-free TV, and if that
weren't enough, it also
handled all of your
syncing, making possible
the first iPod and iPhones.
Well, now, customers love
iTunes and everything it can do.
But if there is one thing
we hear over and over,
it's can iTunes
do even more?
I think it can.
Like how about
Calendar in iTunes?
I mean, you could have all
of your appointments and
your best tracks
right in one app.
Could we take it further?
I think so.
How about Mail in iTunes?
(Applause)
And maybe Safari
in iTunes?
And how are you going to
switch between these apps?
Well, of course you
will add a dock.
I think we've nailed it.
(Applause)
"Truth Be Told" our
team had a better idea.
The future of Apple Music
or iTunes at not one app
but three, Apple Music,
Apple Podcasts and Apple TV.
(Applause)
Let's start with Apple
Music because Apple Music
in Catalina is the best
music app we have ever made.
With its singular focus on
music, it's so simple, but
it has all of the powerful
music features you expect
from iTunes all while
being just blazingly fast.
It's the best place for
Apple Music subscribers,
with personalized
recommendations from a
catalog of over
50 million tracks.
And for those of you that
use iTunes to sync, we
made that experience
better as well because now
when you plug in your
phone, this is what you see.
Nothing.
(Applause)
If you do want to sync,
you can find it in the side
bar in finder; all of your
sync options are right there.
(Applause)
And next, let's turn our
attention to Podcast.
It brings a dedicated
Podcast listening
experience to the Mac and
it features all of the
great features you are
used to in iOS, like
listen now where you can
see new episodes and keep track
of your listening across all
of your devices and it
has a great new feature and it has to do with search.
You know, sometimes you
hear about something on
the radio maybe or a new
podcast or something on
the news and you think oh,
I want to hear more about
that, but you are not sure
what show it was on or
even that it appeared
in the title.
Well, now we use machine
learning to index the
contents of the spoken
content of Podcasts, so
now you can search that
content and find the
Podcast with just a
few clicks in the app.
It's great.
(Applause)
And finally, the Apple TV
app, your new home for TV
and music on the Mac.
Now, you will love having
access to Watch Now,
including all of your
great channels like HBO
and Showtime, and it has
all of your purchased
movies for iTunes as well,
and they have never looked
or sounded better because
now on recent Macs, we
have support for 4K HDR
playback on the Mac with
HDR10 and Dolby Vision.
And Dolby Atmos playback
as well so you will
experience amazing spatial
audio rendered right out
of your MacBook's speakers.
So, that's Apple Music,
Apple Podcasts and Apple
TV, and now I want to
turn to something new.
We call it sidecar.
Yeah.
Now, Mac users love
connecting their laptop to
an external display so
they can spread out their
work, but often when they
have to leave on the go,
they have to leave
that display behind.
Well, no longer, because
now you can use your iPad
as a second display
for your Mac.
(Applause)
It's great.
You can spread out your
work right across your
iPad, but, of course, some
pro users like using these
dedicated tablets for
precise input on their Mac.
Well, now with the iPad
and Apple Pencil, you can
do that too.
It works both wired and
wirelessly so you can get
comfortable, and it
works across all of your
favorite Mac Apps
that support tablets.
Now, next I want to
turn to accessibility.
Now, we believe technology
is most powerful when
everyone can use it.
So, we engineer a wide
array of assistive
technologies into our
all of our products.
Now, for users with
physical motor
limitations, voice can be
an extremely powerful way
to operate a computer.
And this year, we are proud
to introduce voice control.
Now, voice control lets
you control your Mac
entirely with your voice
and not just that.
We are also bringing
it to iOS as well.
I would like to show you
just how transformative
this can be.
>> MALE SPEAKER: Wake up.
Voice control is a
breakthrough feature that
gives you full control of
your devices, comma, with
just your voice, period.
It's a whole new way to
do everything you love,
period.
Like this.
Correct love.
16.
Open photos.
Scroll up.
Show numbers.
13.
Click share.
3.
Tim, next field.
Let's ride this one today.
Thumbs up emoji.
Click send.
Open Maps.
Show grid.
Long press it.
20.
Open app switcher.
4.
Tap share.
Tap Tim.
Tap send.
Hey, good to see you.
Open music.
Turn up the volume.
(Applause)
>> CRAIG FEDERIGHI: So,
that's voice control.
Now, it leverages the
latest Siri voice
recognition technology to
precisely understand what
you are saying and all
of those commands and of
course, your voice is
processed locally on
device so none of that
audio goes to Apple.
Now, next, I want to turn
to a new solution that helps
you find your Mac should it
ever be lost or stolen.
It's called Find My.
Now, Find My combines Find
My iPhone with Find My
Friends and it's now
available on the Mac and
iOS devices as well.
And it has a new twist
because it can now even
locate Apple devices
that are offline.
Now, this is particularly
important for Macs because
often your laptop is
folded up in a bag,
asleep, and no longer
on the network.
Now, the way this
works is really cool.
Let's say you have
misplaced your MacBook.
So, even when it's offline
and sleeping, it sends out
a secure Bluetooth beacon
that can be detected by
other people's Apple
devices nearby.
Now, they can relay your
MacBook's location to the
network and ultimately back
to you so you can find it.
Now, what's amazing
is that this whole
interaction is end to end
encrypted and anonymous.
It uses just tiny bits of
data that piggyback on
existing network traffic,
so there is no need to
worry about your battery
life, your data usage,
or your privacy.
Next, activation lock.
We are bringing activation
lock to your Mac to make
it far less
attractive to thieves.
It's available on all Macs
with a T2 security chip
and it works just like
on your iPhone and iPad.
So, in the unfortunate
event that your Mac ever
is stolen, the thief will
find it completely useless
because they can't even
install or boot it unless
you reactivate it with
your credentials.
Now, I want to turn to
apps because there is much
more to the App
story in Catalina.
Now, you will find of
course the beautiful new
photo browsing experience
in Photos, an updated
start page in Safari.
The brand-new gallery
view in Notes.
And a completely
redesigned Reminders app,
but also for the first
time, we're bringing
Screen Time to the Mac.
Now, it has all of the
same great features from
iOS, so you and your
family can understand the
complete picture of your
use across all of your
devices and all of the
limits are enforced across
all of your devices.
We think this is going to
be great for families.
Now, of course, Mac users
also love third party apps
and they love to have
more on the platform.
We have been working
on a new project that
internally we call Project
Catalyst, and it's new
technology that lets
developers quickly and
efficiently create apps
for the Mac based on their
existing iPad apps.
Now, there are over a
million iPad apps out
there and we think some of them would be fantastic on the Mac.
Now, iPad developers, of
course, would also love to
have a greater audience
to sell their apps to and
there are 100 million
active Mac users out there
waiting for them.
Now, if you are running
Mojave, you already use
Catalyst technology
because we used it to
build News, Stocks,
Voice Memos, Home.
Now, that was just V1 and we have learned a lot since then.
We have spent the last
year expanding the number
of categories of apps the
technology could support
and we have tuned it up
so it results in a much
better Mac App.
We are pleased to announce
that we are making
Catalyst available to developers today in macOS Catalina.
(Applause)
Now, the experience starts
right here in XCode.
Just open up your existing
iPad project, check the
Mac checkbox.
And just like that, you
will get a huge head start
because XCode
automatically builds in
all of the fundamental
features like cursor
controls, window controls
and so forth, and that
lets you focus on the
finishing touches, maybe a
translucent side bar, pull
down menus or whatever
features would make your
Mac - your app just great
on the Mac.
Now, this means one
Development Team for the
first time can build a
single app that can span
all the way from
iPhone to iPad to Mac.
Now, we have been
working with a number of
developers previewing
Catalyst technology, and
we have already seen
some great Mac Apps.
For instance, the great
racing game Asphalt 9:
Legends from Gameloft.
Here is what
they had to say.
"We had Asphalt 9: Legends
for the Mac running on
the first day.
It looks stunning and runs
super fast using Metal on
powerful Mac hardware."
And Twitter, excited to
come back to the Mac with
a native app.
They said, "We had
Twitter for Mac running -
including native Mac
features - in just days.
Now a single team can
efficiently manage Twitter
for iPhone, iPad and Mac."
And finally, we asked
Atlassian, Developers of
Jira Cloud, leading
project management
solution for agile
software development, to
give Catalyst a try.
To tell you more about it,
I would like to invite Rob
Chatfield, Senior iOS
Engineer, to the stage.
Rob, come on up.
(Applause)
>> ROB CHATFIELD:
Thanks, Craig.
Jira has been on the web
for years and recently we
have put a lot of effort
into mobile, like our iOS
app that offers quick
and easy access to your
projects on the go.
Many of you have asked us
for a similar experience
on the Mac.
Well, today, I am thrilled
to announce that we have
done just that.
We were impressed that we
were able to get the Jira
project up and running in
just a few days and it's a
huge project.
Now, our iOS devs
are Mac devs too.
One code base, one team.
Here is a preview.
The boards view looks
amazing on the Mac display
with plenty of room for
multitasking, and the
benefit of this being a
native app is that it's
insanely fast.
We can switch between
these views instantly
which is a level of
performance you just don't
get on the Web.
And this is one project,
so all of the work we did
on iPad automatically
translated to the Mac,
like keyboard shortcuts,
Spotlight, and Drag and Drop.
And it was easy to add
those finishing touches
that make it perfect
for the desktop.
For example, we added our top tasks into the custom toolbar.
All of this never would
have happened without
Project Catalyst.
We are super excited to be
bringing the Jira app to
Mac and can't wait
for you to try it.
So, look for Jira Cloud
in the Mac App Store
later this year.
Thank you very much.
(Applause)
>> CRAIG FEDERIGHI: So, we
are really excited about
this technology and
excited to see what apps
you all bring to the Mac
App Store this fall.
So that's macOS Catalina.
Sidecar, strong security
improvements, great new
system apps and Project
Catalyst bringing a whole
new way to bring
new apps to the Mac.
You know, you have seen
a lot today in terms of
tools for pro users, and
you know who our biggest
group of pros is?
Well, it's developers,
all of you.
And, you know, everything
we do for Developers is
focused on the goal of
helping you create the
greatest and most
innovative apps and we do
this by providing tools
and technologies designed
to give you a head start.
Well, this year we have a
whole bunch to talk about,
like Metal and Core ML,
but we are going to cover
that later in
the conference.
Today I want to focus
on just two areas.
AR and Swift.
And we will start with AR.
Today, we have three
really big announcements,
starting with RealityKit.
So, you know, creating
complex 3D environments
can require deep knowledge
of 3D modeling and mastery
of sophisticated gaming
engines like Unity and
Unreal, but what about the
developers who want to
incorporate 3D and AR in
their apps but they don't
have that experience?
Well, that's where
RealityKit comes in.
It's built from the ground
up for AR with photo
realistic rendering,
amazing effects like
camera motion blur
and noise, and it is
seamlessly integrated into ARKit and has a native Swift API.
Now, how do you actually
model your 3D content?
Well, that's where Reality
Composer comes in.
Reality composer is a new
app featuring Drag and
Drop - a Drag and Drop
interface and a library of
high quality objects and
animations making it
incredibly fast and
easy to build an
interactive environment.
Now, of course, it's
integrated with XCode, but
it's also
available on iOS.
So, you can edit, test,
and tune your app right on
the device where it will
ultimately be delivered.
Now, of course, the
foundation of AR on iOS is
ARKit, and ARKit
is a major update.
I want to focus on
one area around the
improvement in the way
people are handled in AR
scenes starting with
people occlusion.
Now, this is insane.
(Applause)
What used to require
painstaking compositing by
hand can now be
done in real time.
(Applause)
Now, by knowing where
these people are in the
scenes you can see we can
layer virtual content in
front and behind them.
And check this out;
Motion Capture.
Just point your camera at
a person and we can track
in real-time the positions
of their head, their torso and
their limbs and feed it as an input into the AR experience.
(Applause)
Now, Developers are going
to do amazing things with
ARKit 3, and that
brings us to Minecraft.
Minecraft is the
bestselling game of all
time, and a great
platform for creativity.
So, to see how ARKit is
enabling Minecraft to go
to the next level, I'm
happy to welcome to the
stage, Lydia Winters and
Saxs Persson from Mojang.
(Applause)
>> LYDIA WINTERS:
Thanks, Craig.
Our amazing community
inspires us to push
boundaries and build
unique experiences.
We are here today to show
you our newest creation.
>> SAXS PERSSON: We have
been dreaming about a
Minecraft in the real
world and Minecraft in
Augmented Reality.
We share a vision with
Apple, how AR can uniquely
connect us to the world
and today technology is
ready for that vision.
We built something we
think is pretty special.
>> LYDIA WINTERS: We are
excited to demo gameplay
for the very first time
right here on stage.
(Applause)
This is Minecraft Earth.
>> SAXS PERSSON: Let's
start with the basics.
This is a real living,
breathing Minecraft world
right on your tabletop
with red stone circuitry,
fireworks, flowing water.
You can break anything,
you can play with your
mobs, and when I look at
Lydia, I can see what tool
she is holding and I can
see her name and we can
see anything
she is building.
>> LYDIA WINTERS: I'm going
to put myself into the build.
There I am.
>> SAXS PERSSON: Nice.
Looks just like you.
Let's use Motion Capture
and make your character wave.
Try one wave.
Let's try the trick
of the double wave.
Cool.
>> LYDIA WINTERS: This
looks amazing on the
tabletop, but let's
use the stage.
Here we go.
(Applause)
Look, Mom, I'm
in Minecraft.
>> SAXS PERSSON: You fit
right in with the new
people occlusion feature
like you can fit right
into your Minecraft world.
That only works on iOS.
>> LYDIA WINTERS: It's
like hide and seek.
>> SAXS PERSSON: This is
a fully interactive world
even at this scale.
>> LYDIA WINTERS: There
are some interesting
levers over here.
I'm going to press the one
with the feathers on it.
>> SAXS PERSSON: All right.
Watch out for
the chickens.
>> LYDIA WINTERS:
Chickens.
>> SAXS PERSSON: I'm going
to put some seeds in my hand.
They should come rushing over.
>> LYDIA WINTERS: So cute.
Hey Saxs, there is
another lever over here.
It has TNT on it.
I'm definitely
going to pull it.
>> SAXS PERSSON:
Watch out.
>> LYDIA WINTERS: I'm
right on the edge.
Skeletons.
>> SAXS PERSSON:
All right, Lydia.
Can I help you out
with the skeletons?
>> LYDIA WINTERS:
Thank you.
>> SAXS PERSSON: Uh
oh, chicken, sorry.
>> LYDIA WINTERS: Oh no.
Skeletons only.
>> SAXS PERSSON:
I'm trying.
All right.
That's a huge cave
underneath you we can light up.
>> LYDIA WINTERS: It's
hard to believe that there
is nothing on the ground
or around us on the stage.
It's incredibly immersive.
The fun, quirkiness and
surprises of Minecraft are
all around to discover.
Oh, no, Saxs, a creeper.
(Applause)
It's always a creeper.
Minecraft takes on its
biggest dimension yet, earth.
Unleash your creativity,
build with friends and
turn the real world
into your playground.
>> SAXS PERSSON: Go to
Minecraft dot net to learn
more and sign up for your chance to play on iOS this summer.
>> LYDIA WINTERS: We can't
wait to see what you do in
Minecraft Earth.
Thanks, everyone.
>> SAXS PERSSON:
Thank you.
(Applause)
>> CRAIG FEDERIGHI:
Isn't that great?
Now, just to be clear, no
chickens were harmed on
the stage at WWDC.
I know it was very lifelike,
but that was an illusion.
So, that's ARKit 3, RealityKit and Reality Composer.
It's a huge year for AR.
It's also an enormous
year for Swift.
(Applause)
Now, platform programming
language transitions, they
only come along
every 20 to 30 years.
You know, C and Objective
C, those were created in
the 70s and 80s and Swift
was just launched five
years ago and it's
just amazing how strong
it's been going.
There are over 450,000
apps on the App Store
using Swift and
Developers are loving it.
(Applause)
Yes.
Thank you all.
But you know, a new
language enables new
paradigms and with
it, new frameworks.
Now, Objective C enabled
AppKit and then UIKit,
improving developer
productivity by an order
of magnitude and
ultimately igniting the
app revolution.
Now, when we introduce
Swift, the first step was
to make sure developers
could access these great
frameworks while taking
advantage of the
languages, speed, and
expressiveness, but, of
course, the biggest
gains were yet to come.
The true step function in
development would only
come when we engineered a
new framework, built from
the ground up to take
advantage of everything
that Swift had to offer.
Today we are announcing
that new framework.
It's called SwiftUI.
(Applause)
Now, SwiftUI is built in
Swift for Swift and it
provides a new paradigm.
You specify UI with
simple declarations.
It makes code really
easy to write and really
easy to understand.
It's designed to help you build better apps with way less code.
For instance, let's take
an app like this, a simple list.
We have all written
one of these.
It turns out if you want
to write this with support
for all of the modern
features, you might end up
writing something
like this in UIKit.
It's actually quite
a bit of code.
Here is that same
thing in SwiftUI.
That's it.
(Applause)
Just a few lines
of Swift code.
Yes.
Now, there is so much
that SwiftUI gives you.
It frees you to focus on
the functionality in your
apps and we automatically
do new things for you like
when we add Dark Mode,
your app gets it automatically.
And of course, the
framework is only part of
the story because in XCode
there's a new interactive
development experience.
You can think about it
like Playgrounds cranked
to eleven built for apps.
Now, to show you SwiftUI
in action, I would like to
invite Josh Shaffer,
the head of our iOS UI
frameworks team to the
stage to give you a live demo.
Josh.
(Applause)
>> JOSH SHAFFER: All right.
Thanks, Craig.
Let me show you how easy it is to get started with SwiftUI.
On the canvas on the
right, you can see my
simple hello world app.
And I can just select the
text on the canvas and
when I do, XCode
highlights the code in the
editor on the left.
Watch what happens
when I edit it.
The preview updates
immediately.
(Applause)
Now, to get started let's
open our library of views.
We can see options and
drag one right out and
drop one right
on the canvas.
As soon as I do, the code
for it is added to the
editor on the left.
With simple Drag and Drop,
we can get real code
created instantly, and
built in inspectors let us
adjust the layout of our
views exactly like you
would in an app
like Keynote.
The inspectors are
tailored for each type of
view so you can see the
kind of options that you
have, and choose exactly
the one that you want.
And I can use the exact
same tools to edit the
code directly too.
So, with just one step, we
can take this view we have been
building and convert it into
a scrollable list of views.
Now, a list
requires content.
(Applause)
Thanks.
It's really incredible.
Okay.
So, a list requires
content and for that we
can bring in a model
object that I created
earlier and start
connecting it up to our views.
For the first public app
written with SwiftUI, we
thought it would be kind
of fun to help our friends
in product marketing to
choose the perfect name
for the next
release of MacOS.
So, here we have a list of
themes but we need a place
to display a release name.
For that, we can drag
in a custom component we
created earlier and drop
it right at the top.
Now, even with this little
amount of code, SwiftUI
already provides default
support for really common
features like localization
for right to left
languages and, of course,
iOS 13's new Dark Mode.
(Applause)
All right.
Now, let's make this
interactive so that when
we select a row in the
table, we will display a
name for the theme.
Now, we are ready to test
it out and with just a
click, we can go from
designing our app to
interacting with
it, right in XCode.
Now, testing within XCode
is incredible, but I want
to try it on a device too,
so with just one more
click we can now install
it on our phone and be
ready to try it out there.
So, let's try farms
or maybe food.
That's great but what's
really incredible about this
is that we can start to edit
it live right on the device.
So, SwiftUI includes
built in support for
animated transitions.
So, let's see some options
and pick a cool one for the top.
Now, this time when we
choose a name it is going
to animate in.
So, let's say deserts
or maybe beaches.
That's better, but we
all know that product
marketing chooses these
names randomly, so to get
a feel that matches that
reality, let's wrap our
banner in a custom
randomizer component that
I built earlier to help us
pick a name and now we are
ready to choose the
next name for macOS.
That one is not great.
Let's try one more.
Cute animals
seems promising.
Well, that one is perfect.
All right.
So, because SwiftUI
includes built in support
for integrating with
other Apple frameworks, I
thought it would be fun
to use the new RealityKit
framework to envision
the release of MacOS 10,
Flying Squirrel.
It looks like it's
going to be amazing.
That's a Quick Look at
building user interfaces
with SwiftUI and
XCode previews.
You are going to love it.
(Applause)
>> CRAIG FEDERIGHI:
What do you think?
(Applause)
Now, I'm sure that many of
you are really excited to
adopt SwiftUI in your apps
and the good news is you
can do it starting with a
single view all the way up
to a whole application.
And this isn't just
for building iOS apps.
For the first time ever,
we now have a native
framework for building
Watch apps as well.
(Applause)
But not just that.
SwiftUI is available
across all of our
platforms and it provides
bindings to all of the
native controls so you can
customize your experiences
specifically for each, all
while using a common API.
It's incredibly powerful.
Now, that's just some
of our big news for
developers this morning.
I want to thank you all
for spending the time with me.
You are so awesome.
I'm going to hand
it back to Tim.
Thank you.
(Applause)
>> TIM COOK:
Thank you, Craig.
What an incredible morning.
Have you enjoyed it?
(Applause)
Yeah.
Today - today we moved all
of our software platforms
forward, providing
customers new ways to
enrich their lives
and powerful tools to
developers so they can
continue to change the world.
All of the platforms will
be available as a beta today.
(Applause)
And the public seed for
macOS, iOS and iPad iOS
will be available in July,
and, of course, all of
this great software will
be available to our users
in the fall.
(Applause)
Now, you will also be able
to get an early look at
the new MacPro and the Pro
Display XDR in our Pro
Studio just
across the street.
I encourage
you to do that.
We have a huge week
planned for you guys, with
more than one hundred
sessions, more than two
hundred hands on labs,
and over a thousand Apple
engineers that are
here to help you.
So, seek them out.
We can't wait to see what
you guys are going to
dream up and how you are
going to continue to
change the world.
Now, before I close this
morning, I would like to
thank everyone that worked
so hard at Apple on all of
the products that
you saw this morning.
These guys have given up
their nights and weekends
from their families and so
on and so forth, and many
of these innovations are
years in the making.
So, thank you.
Let's give them a
round of applause.
(Applause)
Yes.
Thank you all for coming
and sharing the time with us.
Have a great week.
Thank you.
(Applause)
(Music playing)